docs/scripts: Update Loki OSS release guide (#10646)
grafana/loki: docs/sources/community/maintaining/release/3-prepare-release-notes.md

---
title: Prepare Release notes
description: Prepare Release notes
---
# Prepare Release notes

> Release notes are the few key highlights of the release. This is what appears on the release page on the Github.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Release notes are the few key highlights of the release. This is what appears on the release page on Github.
```

## Before you begin

1. Determine the [VERSION_PREFIX]({{< relref "./concepts/version" >}}).

> 1. Know bit about how release notes works in Grafana Loki.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Release notes in Grafana Loki work as follows.
```

	We have
	1. `release-notes/next.md` to track release notes that are not released yet.
	1. `release-notes/v<major>-<minor>.md` to track release notes that is part of that Loki version.

> 	Preparing release notes for specific Loki release at high level is basically two steps

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	Preparing release notes for a specific Loki release at high level is basically two steps
```

	1. Add important notes to `next.md`

> 	1. And make it available in specific Loki version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	1. And make it available in a specific Loki version.
```

## Steps

1. Discuss with Loki team to finalize what PRs should be part of release notes.

1. Go to the PR and add a label `add-to-release-notes`. Example [PR](https://github.com/grafana/loki/pull/10213) with label added.

	>>**NOTE**: Pick any one PR if the changes involves multiple PRs.

> 1. CI creates a PR to add original PR to release notes. Example [PR](https://github.com/grafana/loki/pull/10359)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. CI creates a PR to add the original PR to the release notes. Example [PR](https://github.com/grafana/loki/pull/10359)
```

1. Review the PR carefully. Update the description, approve and merge.

1. Repeat the steps for all the PRs.

1. Review the final release notes with Loki squad.

1. Prepare release notes PR to `main` branch. Example [PR](https://github.com/grafana/loki/pull/9004/)

>    * Copy `next.md` to the new `v<MAJOR>-<MINOR>.md` (e.g: `v2.9.md`)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   * Copy `next.md` file to the new file `v<MAJOR>-<MINOR>.md` (e.g: `v2.9.md`)
```

   * Replace version place holders `V?.?` with `V<MAJOR>.<MINOR>` in the new file.

>    * Remove all the entries under `Features and enhancements`, `Upgrade Considerations` and `Bug fixes` on `next.md`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   * Remove all the entries under `Features and enhancements`, `Upgrade Considerations` and `Bug fixes` in `next.md` file
```

>    * Add an entry for new version in `_index.md` as shown in the example PR above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   * Add an entry for the new version in `_index.md` as shown in the example PR above.
```

>    * Add an entry for the new version in `_index.md` as shown in the example PR above.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   * Add an entry for the new version in `_index.md` as shown in the example PR above.  Set the weight for the new file so that the new release notes file appears at the top of the table of contents.
```

   * Get review and merged.

> 1. Backport above PR to the `release-VERSION_PREFIX` branch. Example [PR](https://github.com/grafana/loki/pull/10482)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Backport above PR to the `release-VERSION_PREFIX` branch. Example [PR](https://github.com/grafana/loki/pull/10482)
```
```suggestion
1. Backport the release notes PR from `main` to the `release-VERSION_PREFIX` branch. Example [PR](https://github.com/grafana/loki/pull/10482).
```

	We have two separate markdown files:
	1. `release-notes/next.md` to track release notes that are not released yet.
	1. `release-notes/v<major>-<minor>.md` to track release notes that are part of each specific Loki version.

	Preparing release notes for a specific Loki release at high level is basically two steps:
	1. Add important notes to `next.md`
	1. And make it available in a specific Loki version.

## Steps

1. Discuss with Loki team to finalize what PRs should be part of release notes.

1. Go to the PR and add a label `add-to-release-notes`. Example [PR](https://github.com/grafana/loki/pull/10213) with label added.

	{{% admonition type="note" %}}
	Pick any one PR if the changes involves multiple PRs.
	{{% /admonition %}}

1. The CI process creates a PR to add the original PR to the release notes. Example [PR](https://github.com/grafana/loki/pull/10359).

1. Review the PR carefully. Update the description, approve and merge.

1. Repeat the steps for all the PRs.

1. Review the final release notes with Loki squad.

1. Create a release notes PR on the `main` branch. Example [PR](https://github.com/grafana/loki/pull/9004/).

>    * Copy `next.md` file to the new file `v<MAJOR>-<MINOR>.md` (e.g: `v2.9.md`)

Reviewer 4: will also need to create a new `next.md`

Author: It's kinda same what I explained there :)

Copy `next.md` to `v<MAJOR>-<MINOR>.md` and removing all entries from existing `next.md` is same as creating new `next.md` :)
